给大家布置一个拓展操作题

spark的in  ，not in，exist，not exist四种

1.是否都支持 
都是支持的
2.谁效率高(对比mysql oracle)

EXISTS using LEFT SEMI joins
not Exists using LEFT ANTI joins
in using LEFT SEMI joins
not in is a very expensive operator in practice

从join的类型的角度来看，exists和 not exists 和 in 都是相同的join (left anti join与 left semi join类似)
从mysql和oracle的经验来看  in是不走索引 所以 exists和 not exists的效率要高于 in 和 not in 

//参考https://databricks-prod-cloudfront.cloud.databricks.com/public/4027ec902e239c93eaaa8714f173bcfc/2728434780191932/1483312212640900/6987336228780374/latest.html

标量子查询是返回单个结果的子查询。标量子查询可以是相关查询，也可以是非相关查询。
Scalar subqueries are subqueries that return a single result. Scalar subqueries can either be correlated or uncorrelated.


An uncorrelated subquery returns the same single value for all records in a query. Uncorrelated subqueries are executed by the Spark enging before the main query is executed. 
SELECT  employee_id,
        age,
        (SELECT MAX(age) FROM employee) max_age
FROM    employee


Correlated Scalar Subqueries
Subqueries can be correlated, this means that the subquery contains references to the outer query. 
These outer references are typically used in filter clauses (SQL WHERE clause). Spark 2.0 currently only supports this case.

SELECT   A.dep_id,
         A.employee_id,
         A.age,
         (SELECT  MAX(age) FROM employee B WHERE A.dep_id = B.dep_id) max_age
FROM     employee A

Correlated scalar subqueries are planned using LEFT OUTER joins.
A correlated scalar subquery should return a single result for each unique combination of correlated predicates.
 These subqueries must be aggregated and their correlated condition equals predicates in order to ensure that they return a single result. 
 
 
 
 
Predicate Subqueries

[NOT] EXISTS
The subquery is contained in an EXISTS expression.
 An EXISTS expression contains a correlated subquery, and checks if one of the tuples in the subquery matches the predicate conditions. EXISTS can be inverted by prepending NOT
 
 EXISTS based subqueries are planned using LEFT SEMI joins for EXISTS and LEFT ANTI joins for NOT EXISTS.
 
 
IN
In this case the subquery takes the following form: outer_value IN (subquery).
The advantage of the IN syntax is that it is easier for users to express the relation between the sub- and the outer query. 
Multiple predicates can be defined using the the following syntax: (outer_val1, outerval_2) IN (SELECT inner_val1, inner_val2 FROM ...). 
A correlated predicate can be used if we need to add a non-equality predicate.

IN predicates (like EXISTS predicates) are planned using LEFT SEMI joins.

NOT IN
A NOT IN subquery is the opposite of an IN subquery. 
This is different from a NOT EXISTS because NOT IN treats NULL values differently. 
A NOT IN can be rewritten as a conjunction of not equals predicates. 
For example x NOT IN (subquery y) with subquery y having 1 to n values, translates into: x <> y1 AND x <> y2 … AND x <> yn. When one of the tuples returned by the subquery contains a NULL the entire NOT IN clause will evaluate to NULL,
 this causes the outer row to be filtered out.

We use a Null Aware Anti Join to plan NOT IN subqueries. Note that this is a very expensive operator in practice because it will almost always be executed using a Broadcast Nested Loop join.

Nested predicate subqueries

Top-level predicate subqueries are typically planned using LEFT SEMI or LEFT ANTI joins. 
These joins produce or filter the left row when when a predicate (involving the right side of join) evaluates to true. 
These joins cannot be used when a predicate subquery is part of a more complex (disjunctive) predicate because filtering could depend on other predicates or on modifications of the subquery result.



